---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

For this project, we need to develop an open-source toolkit for index insurance, which we need to deploy a database, analyze the data, and show the visualizations via tables and graphs so that users are able to change certain parameters to see different calculations and results of the index insurance in different circumstances. Before we start the project, Professor Wu suggested us to learn Svelte, a JavaScript library for front end, and DBT, a data transformation tool that lets people to deploy analytics code for SQL database. After we learned more about Svelte and DBT, we then built a simple project in Svelte, which could generate a 24x24 grid system, ask users to choose the width and height of a rectangle, and then creates the corresponding rectangle, display it in the grid system, and allow users to click up, down, left, and right buttons to dynamically move the rectangle. We built this simple project to make ourselves familiar with Svelte and be comfortable using it later.

For the first week, we realized that we have some problems running the DBT on Windows Systems. It could crash our local machine systems. After meeting with the entire group that works on this project, we decided to run DBT on Docker, which we can simulate Linux systems. For Docker, once one person sets the DBT working and creates an instance for DBT in Docker, other people could just use the instance directly without setting everything up on their own. It could also benefit other people who would join our team later.

In the first week, we figured out how Docker works, and successfully created instances for the DBT environment. We also wrote a detailed step-by-step guidance on how to download and use the Docker instances we have. We shared the document in our GitHub repository so that other people working for this project could also use it later if needed.